Numbers chapter 22 verse 1 and it reads as follows.
And the children of Israel set forward and pitched in the plains of Moab on this side by this side, Jordan by Jericho and Balak the son of Zippor.
Saw all that Israel had done to the Amorites and Moab was so afraid of the people because they were many and Moab was distressed because of the children of Israel.
And Moab said unto elders of Midian, Now shall this company lick up all that are round about us
and the ox licketh up the grass of the field.
And Baelac, the son of Zippor, was the king of the Moabites at the time.
He sent messengers, therefore, unto Baelum, the son of Baelor Pethor, which is by the river of the land of the children of his people, to call him, saying, Behold, there is a cover on the face of the earth, and they abide over me.
Come, therefore, I pray thee, curse me this people, for they are too mighty for me, per venture I shall prevail.
that we may smite them, and that I may drive them out of this land, for I want that he whom thou blessest is blessed, and he whom thou curses is cursed.
And the elders of Moab and the elders of Minion departed with the rewards of demination in their hand, and they came unto Balaam and spake unto the words of Balaab.
And he said unto them, Lodge here this night, I will bring you word again, as the Lord shall speak unto me, and the princes of Moab abode with Balaam.
And God came unto Balaam and said, What men are these with thee?
And Balaam said unto God, Bailac, the son of Zippor, king of Moab, has sent unto me, saying, Behold, there is the people come out of Egypt, which covered the face of the earth.
Come now, curse me them, for adventure, I shall be able to overcome them and drive them out.
And God said unto Balaam, Thou shalt not go with them.
Thou shalt not curse the people, for they are blessed.
And Balaam rose up in the morning and said unto the princes of Balaak, Get you into your land, for the Lord refuses to give me leave to go with you.
And the princes of Moab rose up, and they went unto Balaak and said, Balaam refuses to come with us.
And Balaak said, again, princes more and more honorable than they.
And they came unto Balaam and said to him, Thus saith Balaak, the son of Zippor, let nothing I pray thee, hinder thee from coming unto me.
for I will promote thee unto very great honor, and will do whatsoever thou sayeth unto me.
Come, therefore, I pray thee, and curse me this people."
And Balaam answered and said unto the servants of Balaak, if Balaak would give me his house full of silver and gold, I cannot go beyond the word of the Lord my God to do lesser more.
Now, therefore, I pray you, Terri also here this night, that I may know what the Lord will say unto me more.
And God came unto Balaam at night, and said unto him, if
The men come to call thee, rise up and go with them, but ye yet the word which I shall say unto thee, thou shalt do.
And Balaam rose up in the morning, and saddled his ass, and went with the princes of Moab, and God's anger was kindled because he went.
OK, a lot of verses.
Let's pray before we go on.
Dear God, thank you for gathering us here in your house to hear your word.
God, be with us as we look at the message today to learn about
what you wrote here in the book of Numbers, and hopefully you know that you are giving your blessing to everybody that's hearing your message that's with us here today.
We pray all these things in Jesus' name, amen.
Alright, time out for a second.
Really I've gotten like a million text messages saying that people at home are having problems with the audio, so you can work on that but I'll keep going for the people here in the audience right now.
All right.
So today, we're going to look at this character called Balaam.
Balaam.
So I was with my daughter the other day, you know, telling her, you know, putting her to bed.
And she says, you know, daddy, tell me a story.
Tell me a story.
What kind of story you want to hear, right?
Is I want to hear a Bible story, a Bible story.
It's okay.
You know, so I said, what about the story of whatever, right?
And I tried to name the famous Bible stories and Bible stories.
You guys probably know.
from, you know, from everything, right?
That there's all these Bible stories, the common ones, the famous ones.
And as a testament to the Sunday school teachers here and the teachers at her church, at her school and so on, she says, oh, I heard that one before.
Oh, I know that one, right?
I know this, I know that.
So, it took me a long time before I could think of something that she had not heard of.
And so that motivated me to say, okay, I need to go and bone up, in case she ever asks me this question again.
Try to think of some more obscure Bible stories
the ones that people may be not heard of as much as I can tell her the story, you know, for a bedtime story, right?
And so, as I was reviewing the list of all these, you know, Bible stories, and one of them here, is the story of Balaam, Balaam.
Maybe you guys maybe not heard of Balaam before or not know much about Balaam.
But it's actually, actually an interesting figure, an interesting story.
So I have a question for you.
those of you following along your phone, right?
Who has more words written about them in the Bible?
Do you think it's Mary, mother of Jesus, Matthew, the apostle, or Balaam?
What do you guys think?
You can plug in your answer and we will, and there's no screen because I didn't want to block this, but I will read off to you what the survey results here on my phone here, and you can see it on your phone too, right?
If you've got your phone going.
Okay?
We see most people
You know, we've got answers tied, right?
They're here to think it's, oh, it's changing.
And people at home, you can vote too, if you can even hear me, right?
If you can hear me, you can vote too.
So obviously, because I asked this question, the answer is a surprising answer, right?
It's actually Balaam.
And the majority of you guys got this right.
Seven for Balaam, four for Matthew, zero for Mary, the mother of Jesus.
There's actually more written in the Bible about this guy, Balaam, than these other famous people.
more about Balaam than many other people.
Let me ask you this.
How many books of the Bible mention Balaam?
What do you guys in the audience here think?
Do you think it's two, four, six, or eight?
How many books in the Bible mention this guy?
Balaam.
We'll give a second for people to vote.
And we've got a lot of votes coming in here.
Let me read off the votes here.
I don't know if we're going to wait that long for other people to vote, but we've got three that voted for four, three that voted for six, and two that voted for eight.
The answer, believe it or not, actually is eight.
I was shocked when I saw that.
I was like, oh, I can't believe that so many writers in the Bible wanted to talk about this guy, Bala.
But even though he's mentioned so much, how much do we really know about him?
How much do you guys know about him?
What comes to your mind when I say the word Balaam, right?
Does anything come to your mind?
Maybe nothing, right?
I wonder if anyone even dare answer this question that I put up on the screen, right?
I don't know if anyone would type anything in there, right?
Because maybe the answer is, no one knows anything about him, right?
The most I could say is, oh yeah, he's that guy and something involving a donkey or something like that, right?
And that's some vague recollection we have about
Oh, we do have some things here.
We have some people writing some words here.
It says people writing, oh, these words like profit and curse turns to blessing and devout and donkey.
Oh, donkey, that's my word, right?
Okay.
Yeah.
So what can we say about this guy?
It's got to be significant.
God talks about him a lot, right?
Even Jesus talked about him.
Peter talked about him.
Jude talked about him.
What can we say about him?
What can we learn from him?
So we're going to go through the story of Balaam the next couple of times here and see what we can get and see what we can learn.
All right, let's go into the story now.
Let's give you the historical context first, the historical context who is Balaam.
The children of Israel
At this time, if you remember, after they left Egypt, they wandered in the desert for 40 years.
They wandered in the wilderness for 40 years.
And this is toward the end of their 40 years.
They're getting close to the Jordan River, crossing over into the promised land, all that kind of stuff.
And we know that during that time, during the 40 years there, that they had met enemies and other people.
And Israel had fought battles.
And the story is that Israel won the battles.
Why?
Because they had God on their side.
God protected them.
God helped them win many battles, whether it be against the Amorites or the other tribes whose names I forget right now, right, that they were able to be victorious.
And, you know, if you guys know that area, that's not like a huge area.
It's not like
you know, the size of like California or whatever.
The Sinai Peninsula is a smaller area than that.
And you can imagine if some group of people, of thousands of people were wandering around for 40 years, people know them.
Oh, they know that there's these people around here.
These Israelites, right?
And so word got around that there's these Israelites, they go around, they fight battles, they win, and people get scared.
And one of the people who were scared was the kingdom of Moab.
And the king of the kingdom of Moab was a man by the name of Balak.
So Balak, the king of Moab, heard about these Israelites and he was scared, what?
That the same thing that happened to the Amorites and all these other folks is going to happen to him.
That they're going to go into his territory, fight the battle, God is on their side and they win and then he loses and he's not king anymore, right?
So he wants to do something about that, obviously.
He doesn't want his kingdom to fall.
So he comes up with an idea, and his idea is consistent with the thoughts of that time, which is, oh, they have this supernatural power, so therefore I need my own supernatural power.
I need someone to put a curse on Israel.
If they are cursed, surely they'll lose in battle or whatever, right?
And somehow he knew about this guy named Balaam, who was known as a prophet.
And we see in these verses that he was a prophet.
He could talk directly to God.
And for whatever reason, he wasn't.
one of the Israelites, you know, walking around the deserts, he was in his own area out there on his own.
And people knew where he was, so he sent people there to convince him, hey, come with me, go to Balak and curse the Israelites so that Moab is protected.
So that's what he did.
He sent elders, right?
He sent elders in verse seven, bringing them many rewards, right?
Mr. Balaam, if you do this, you will get lots of rewards, right?
What does Balaam do in response?
So he sends the messengers.
What does he do in response?
He says, oh, well, let me talk to God and see what God says.
So he talks to God and God gives him the message.
The message is this.
He says, you shall not curse the people in verse 12, for they are blessed, right?
Israel is God's people.
You're not going to curse them.
And so initially that's what Balaam says.
He tells the messengers, you know, sorry, can't help you.
God says, I can't curse these people because they're blessed and they go away.
They go back to Balaak and Balaak says like, well, this is my plan.
I got to make sure this works.
Let's go back and ask him again.
And this time he sends princes.
He sends princes, right?
So this is like a step up.
First it was the elders, right?
Now it's the princes.
The princes go all the way to Balaam and say, please come with us to go see King Balaak, right?
And you figure, you would figure Balaam knows the answer already, right?
But instead what he says is this.
He says, okay, let me go ask God again and let's see what happens.
And he's asked God and God basically tells him that, you know, if you want to go, you can go.
You should follow what I say.
But if you want to go, you can go.
And so the next day, he follows them and he goes and he goes and he gets on his donkey and we'll talk about the donkey part next time.
And he goes, follows them back to Beilat.
And God, it says in verse 22 was angry with him for going.
So that's the short version
of this first part of the story of Balaam, right?
And so, you know, a lot of us might look at this and say, you know, what did Balaam do that's so significant?
Or more specifically, what did Balaam do that was wrong that made him so notable in the Bible?
Because on the one hand, you could say, well, from what we read so far, he, you know, he had these people visit him, he talked to God,
Then he listened to God and said, oh, OK, I'm not going.
They came back and they asked him again.
And he asked God.
And God said, you can go if you want.
And then so he went.
So how is that anything wrong?
Isn't that called listening to God and being a good prophet?
Well, let's see what some of his critics say.
That's what Peter says about Balaam.
In 2 Peter chapter 2 verse 15, it says this, which have forsaken the right way and are gone astray, which following the way of Balaam
the son of Bosor who loved the wages of unrighteousness."
Let's see what it says in Jude chapter 1 verse 11.
Jude writes, Woe unto them, for they have gone in the way of Cain and ran greedily after the heir of Balaam for the reward and perished in the gain-saying of Korah.
The criticism of Balaam and the criticism that shines through even in these verses we read here today is that
Balaam was greedy.
Balaam is known as the for-profit, prophet, right?
Even though he sounds like he's like a faithful guy and trying to listen to God, these verses here reveal his true motivation and much so the subsequent verses and the rest of the Bible will hear more about that so on.
But it's revealed that as it says in Peter, right?
He loved the wages of unrighteousness.
As it says in Jude, he ran greedily in error.
What gives it away?
What gives it away is in verse 18 and 19.
Remember the first time he prayed about this whole issue of cursing Israel and he got the answer from God.
God said, no.
Right?
That's the answer.
Pretty clear, right?
He said, Israel is blessed.
Don't curse them.
Next time when those messengers came back, not just messengers, princes this time, princes, they came back.
What does he say?
He doesn't just say, look, I already got the answer last time, go away, right?
He says this in verse 18 to the princes, right?
He says, oh, oh, he says, even if Baylack would give me his house full of silver and gold,
What's on his mind right there that he would even mention that?
Well, he's mentioned, what's on his mind?
I'm sure he saw all the treasures that these princes brought with him that they were trying to convince him to take to come back with them, right?
He can see it.
He's thinking about it, right?
It's in your face.
Oh, I could get all this gold and treasures if I follow these guys, right?
So that's why he's mentioning it, right?
But then he says, what?
I cannot go beyond the word of,
Lord my God oh so you think it's all good right so I'm following God but then he says this in verse 19 now therefore I pray you Terry ye here this night that I may know what the Lord will say unto me more so he already told them all can't do it right can't do it but then he says wait
Why don't we just try one more day and maybe things will change, right?
Maybe we'll get a different answer this time.
That shows you where his heart is.
His heart was, oh, I see the riches and the gold, and maybe there's a chance I can get it, right?
You know, the fact that he had to ask again tells you what, you know, his thought and his motivation.
You know, sometimes the answer is the answer.
It's like when my kids come to me and they ask me for something, right?
They say, oh, you know, we want to play video games right now, right?
And I'll tell them, no, there's no video games today.
We're not doing video games when there's other thing, right?
And then, you know, 10 minutes later, they'll ask, OK, can we play video games now, right?
Now we're going to play.
Well, the answer did not change, right?
In 10 minutes, I'm not going to say, oh, no, now play all the video games you like or no, the answer is still no, right?
But they'll ask again like an hour later, why?
This is what they really want.
We really want to play those video games.
They keep asking, even though they should know, hey, I gave my answer already.
No means no.
We're not doing video games right now, right?
Balaam should have known the answer.
He knows God.
God told him very clearly, Israel is my blessed people.
I'm not going to curse them.
You're not going to curse them.
But he wanted to ask again.
God knows Balaam's heart and he
was angry when he followed them.
You know, he allowed him to go.
Why is that?
And this is one of our good examples of the permissive will of God.
And we hear about this a lot, right?
That we, even today, and people back then, we do have free will, right?
We have free will.
God basically told Balin that you can do what you want.
You can do what you want.
And it's true today that even, you know, Christians
People that say you can believe in God and we love Jesus and follow Him, all that stuff.
God still gives us that same freedom.
Freedom to do what we want.
Even if it's something that God doesn't like.
It's true.
Isn't it right?
If I, you know, decide today, I want to go, you know, rob a bank or whatever.
God's not going to like strike me dead immediately and say, oh, you cannot do that.
Is there a say, you know, you can do what you want.
But guess what?
I'm not gonna like it, right?
We can do a lot of stuff.
You can say, oh, I'm gonna go get drunk and drink all the alcohol I want.
He's not gonna stop us.
He's not gonna put a shield around you and say, oh, these are the only things we can do.
No, God gives us his permissive will.
We can do things, right?
Balaam could follow these guys, right?
Even for something like going to curse Israel.
He can go follow them.
But that doesn't mean
that God likes it or God approves of it, right?
And it's his disapproval that makes Balaam such a remembered person that people like Peter have to say bad things about him.
And Jude has to say bad things about him.
And we'll see later on Jesus himself said bad things about Balaam.
Because what we reveal here is his greed.
His greed is so remembered.
He preferred money over obeying God.
He couldn't get it out of his mind, right?
That even him, a guy that could talk to God directly, to hear God's voice directly, even he could be persuaded and blinded by the temptation of, oh, here's all these riches and money, right?
It said, the message from a bail act was that I'll give you whatever you want, basically, it said.
He said, right, in verse 17 says, I will do whatsoever thou sayeth, right?
If you curse these people.
He really wanted this, right?
Because it was like a blank check.
Imagine that.
You can have a blank check whatever you want, Balaam, from this king of this whole country.
Blank check.
You got it.
And he couldn't say no.
He couldn't say no, even the man of God.
And it's true today, we see so-called religious people.
How many of them?
fall into similarly, similarly focusing on not the things of God and the ways of God, but sometimes into the way of money.
How many so-called pastors focus on selling their books, right?
Sell all these books and sell their prayer time, right?
Call in and give me money and I'll pray for you, right?
These are supposedly the man of God.
The man of God still cares about money.
Right?
How sad it is that we hear about on the news and the stories and stuff, the man of God that feels that he needs to drive a hundred thousand dollar car and fly in a private jet everywhere and live in the biggest mansion or whatever.
You know, to hear about some of these mega church pastors that do that shows you how corrupting money is.
And you know, it's been tied to, you know, religious people
Throughout history, not just Christians, we see it in all the other faiths too, right?
How much money has gone to the Catholic Church, for example?
How much money does the Mormon Church get every year?
Or same thing with the Muslims, even the Buddhists, right?
used to go to these Buddhist temples and he told me that he didn't like going there.
Why?
He thought it was a scam, right?
It's like, oh, you can go and get your fortune, right?
But if you give like the monk extra money, he'll give you like, you know, a better fortune or something like that.
You know, it's like, even he could see through like, this is a scam.
All these things, they just want money from you, right?
All these people that say that we're whatever religious person or godly or whatever, like they can't open their mouth without saying, but what about the money, right?
What about the money?
And so this is how Balaam came out.
He was a for-profit guy, right?
He was thinking about that bounty, all the material wealth that these guys were showing him, right?
The princes.
Here it comes, right?
And if the man of God fell into this trap, how much more problem do we, do we just regular folks, right?
Have with this.
Because, you know,
It's out there, folks.
It's out there that these things are in our face, in our face, right?
When we see all these people living in luxury, right?
When we see what people can do with their riches and money and things like that.
The old saying is that money can't buy happiness, right?
That's what people always say, money can't buy happiness.
But it's also true that money can buy you a lot of stuff like a nice house and a nice car and good medical care and nice clothes and a warm heat to live in that can sure make your life a lot more comfortable even if you're not happy, right?
And that's the struggle that even Christians, even myself deal with here because we know that, you know, there's,
not necessarily anything sinful about having possessions.
We all have possessions, we all want to have a house to live in, a car to drive, and food for our families, and all that kind of stuff like that, right?
But what happens is when our attitude towards them goes wrong, that's where we find problems.
But it's just so, what we say, tempting based on what the society has put out there, right?
All of us, all of us would say,
I sure would like to live more comfortably, right?
You would say that's not a sinful desire, is it?
Just to say I sure wish it is.
I wish I had this or that or the other thing to make my life more comfortable for my family, for my kids, for my wife, right?
For all these other people, not even for myself, right?
I want that, right?
And especially given how hard it is to, how hard it is today, right?
Especially some of you young people, college folks,
Young graduates, I see how hard it is even compared to when it was when I graduated, you know, ages ago, right?
About you come out, graduate now, try to get a job.
You eat if you're trying to do everything right.
Work hard, earn money, save up.
How long does it take to save up, do something like to buy a house nowadays when the house costs over a million dollars, right?
million dollars you need like what 20% down payment $200,000 how many years and years and years are you working right you'll be you'll be old before you have $200,000 and I can speak from personal experience you know I was lucky God bless me that you know we got our house in the early days when it didn't cost a million dollars but you know right now we've got a two bedroom house and you guys know that I have two kids right so two bedroom house with two kids doesn't equal very many bedrooms for everybody right
So every once in a while, Alain and I will think, oh boy, wouldn't it be nice if we had a three bedroom house, right?
Three bedroom house and then everyone can have their own bedroom, right?
And then it'll be a lot better.
But then you look at it and you say, oh, you know, you work hard and we do our best and we try to follow God and everything like that.
But you know if I want to buy a three bedroom house in a nice neighborhood or whatever, nowadays it costs like what?
$2 million.
To get, buy a $2 million house, how much would it save?
$400,000, like when will I ever save that?
Half past never, right?
So you can see how people get, be, be affected like, well, I sure wish I had those money.
If I had all this money, I could finally get that three bedroom house I wanted.
I couldn't get everyone have a bedroom.
I could buy a $2 million house or whatever.
People think about this all the time.
You probably think about this, I know, because I think about it, right?
This is the way people think.
You see it.
You say, this is not unreasonable.
I'm not trying to get the mega mansion.
I'm not getting a private jet.
Can I just get this and this and this?
But the more we focus on that, the more we lose sight of what God shows us.
God shows us that we ought to be content with His provision.
1215 it says this, and he said unto them, take heed and beware of covetousness.
For a man's life consists this, not in his abundance of the things which he possesses.
God's trying to remind us.
It's not about what we have.
It's not about what we have, right?
Our attitude ought to be contentment with what God has provided.
Isn't it true that God has given us what we need?
I've got a house.
It's a two bedroom house, right?
It might not be the perfect house, but it's a house.
God has given me what I need, right?
I probably have more than a lot of people.
Like I said, a lot of these young people coming out of college right now that can't barely afford to buy a house at all, right?
I should be happy.
My attitude should be happy to be rejoicing, to be thankful.
Our attitude ought to be that.
People like Balaam should have been rejoicing and thankful for all of God's blessing, not being covetous of, oh,
goodness look at all those treasures those princes brought if I had all those wouldn't it be even better right in Philippians 419 says this but my God shall supply all your need according to his riches by glory in Jesus Christ we have all the riches of Jesus Christ already if we pursue things like physical riches material needs we're leading ourselves into temptation traps
Foolishness doing all these things that plunge man into other ways So you know I was talking to my friends realtor about this house issue because how do we get to how do people buy houses from you now?
No one has two million dollars and he's joked like oh well you got to buy some of these like meme stocks or Doge coins or whatever right and then if you if you get that you'll have tons of money right and you know I
I actually thought about it because I heard so many people talk about this, right?
Like, oh, yeah, you just put your money in this random thing and maybe we'll go up a lot of money and multiply your money times 10 times 20 or whatever, right?
And you know, it was a temptation of thinking about how else can I get this house?
I could work for 10 years and not get $400,000 in savings, right?
But maybe if I did this thing, gambled my money on this thing like he joked about, maybe that's the way to get quick wealth and then I can have the three bedroom house.
But you know what?
Those type of things, right?
If you guys don't know what these meme stocks are, right?
These are things like, oh, you invest in some company that's terrible, like AMC or GameStop or whatever that's failing.
And just because everyone on the internet says you buy it, you create a bubble.
And then hopefully you're smart enough when the bubble, before the bubble burst, you sold all your stocks and you make a lot of money, right?
Similar with cryptocurrencies, right?
What makes a cryptocurrency go up?
I have no idea.
Well, the only thing I know is that if a lot of people buy it, the value goes up and if you're lucky enough to sell it when it's really high, you make a lot of money, right?
It goes up by like 10 times or 20 times or whatever.
So, you know, I thought about this and I actually prayed about this to God and say, you know, God, maybe this is, maybe this is a wise investment like everyone else is doing.
I see my friends, they show me their account statements.
It went up by thousands of dollars.
Maybe this is how I get thousands of dollars for a down payment on a big house.
And what I couldn't get past was this.
I'm talking to God.
I said, you know, I thought about this.
It's like, what's my motivation in doing this?
Why do I need to buy the meme stock or the crypto currency or whatever?
Oh, well, why?
Because I want this money and I want it quickly.
That's why.
And I thought, oh, that's not a godly reason at all, is it?
That's no different than going to say, I'm going to go to Las Vegas and put all my money on black.
And then if I could get it, then it doubles my money.
I got it quickly, right?
And when I saw that and saw that motivation, I said, no, I can't do this.
I can't be buying into something like this where it's just pure risk, where it could go from $300 to $4 in a week, right?
I can't do that.
That's the wrong motivation.
That's the wrong reason for doing this.
And so I put that aside and I said, no, no, no, I gotta keep doing it.
God's like, I need to focus on continuing just to do things
the way God wants us.
We talked about, oh, we're running out of time here.
We talked about this last time.
We talked about facing these temptations.
How we protect ourselves.
We protect ourselves by focusing on Jesus Christ.
The more we look at these other things, the more we stare at the house listings.
Oh, this house is really cool.
It has three bedrooms, or it has all this walking closet or whatever.
The more we think about it and obsess about that, we're obsessing on the wrong thing.
The more we focus on, let's say, reading the Bible.
spending time in prayer.
Now our mind is focused on the right thing.
Jesus is gonna lead us the right way, right?
We're not obsessing over the physical need, the physical want, the physical, oh, I sure I wish I had this, that, and the other thing, but instead, focusing on things that we know God wants, whether it be something like spending time in prayer, in fellowship, could be getting people saved, passing out flyers, right?
Our mind, where it's focused, will ride us in the right direction.
Valem had the tell.
He had the tell.
His tell was that his mind was focused on the things of material wealth.
And so he made up excuses.
He made up excuses in order to go chase after it.
And we're going to see next time how he did that.
So he made the excuses and he chased after it.
And we'll see what happens next.
But we are running out of time right now.
So I'll close off with this quote here from William Wilberforces, this.
I continually find it necessary to guard against the natural love of wealth and grandeur with promptness always.
We'll come to apply our general doctrine to our own case to claim an exception.
Is that how it works?
You say, oh, God, I know what you say, but, you know, this time I'm going to do it a little differently because, you know, this is important.
Balaam says, oh, I know your message.
You said don't curse them.
But you know, maybe this time it could be different.
God, maybe.
Oh, God, I know that you don't want us to gamble all our money away and use our money wisely.
But you know, I really want this house.
So maybe this time I can do it a little differently.
Maybe, maybe, you know, it's a special case.
We always make these type of compromises in our life to trot when we are faced with these type of temptations.
We need to protect ourselves against it through Jesus Christ, through following His will.
And we'll elaborate more on that next time when we get to the famous part about Balaam and his donkey and all that kind of stuff.
But right now, let's end up with a word of prayer.
Dear God, we see the sin of Balaam, the sin of greed.
Lord, it's still here today.
We see it all around us.
People do want more things, especially in the world we live in today, where we see things all around us.
May you help protect us against this, shield us with Jesus Christ that keep our eyes on things of Jesus and not the things of the world.
May the things of Jesus fill our heart that we have the desire to do what is good and do what is right and do what is for you, honoring you, serving you.
I want to pray all these things in your son's name.
Amen.